README.md, before:

# WildVision-Bench

## installation

As part of the wildvision arena environment, please install the following dependencies:
```bash
conda create -n visionbench python==3.9
pip install -e .
```

## WVBench Image-Instruct Pair
🤗 [WildVision-Bench](https://huggingface.co/datasets/WildVision/wildvision-bench)

You can get image-instruct pair of WVBench-500 to generate your model answers by loading bench data below:
```python
wildbench_data = load_dataset('WildVision/wildvision-bench', config_name='vision_bench_0617', split='test')
```
We have two versions of Wildvision-Bench data

- `vision_bench_0617`: the selected 500 examples that best simulates the vision-arena elo ranking, same data in the paper.
- `vision_bench_0701`: the further filter and selected 500 examples by NSFW and manual selection. Leaderboard are still preparing.

**Note: For now, if you want to evaluate your model, please use the `vision_bench_0617` version to fairly compare the performance with other models in the following leaderboard.
We are preparing the leaderboard for `vision_bench_0701` and will update it soon.**

## Evaluation

### 1. Generate model answers
Example model answers files is shown in [`data/vision_bench_0617/example_model_answers.jsonl`](data/vision_bench_0617/example_model_answers.jsonl). You need to fill the following fields:
- `output`: the model's output
- `model`: the model name
- `token_len`: the token length of the output (using tiktoken's gpt-3.5-turbo tokenizer)
Then put the file in `data/vision_bench_0617/model_answers/{model_name}.jsonl`.

We provide example inference scripts in [`gen_answers.py`](gen_answers.py). 
### 2. Get judgements
First, go to [`config/judge_config.yaml`](config/judge_config.yaml) and add the models you want to evaluate in the `model_list` field. For example:

```yaml
# Add your model below for evaluation
model_list:
  - liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-7b
  - openbmb/MiniCPM-V
  - deepseek-ai/deepseek-vl-7b-chat
  - BAAI/Bunny-v1_0-3B
  - Salesforce/instructblip-vicuna-7b
```

Then, run the following command:
```bash
python get_judgement.py
```

Results will be saved in `data/release_bench_0617/model_judgements/judge_gpt-4o_reference_claude-3-sonnet-20240229/{model_name}.jsonl`

### 3. Show the results
```bash
python show_results.py
```
Then you will see the results as following leaderboard。

## Using [lmmseval](https://github.com/EvolvingLMMs-Lab/lmms-eval) to evaluate
LMMSEval is a Python package integrated with multiple MLLM's inference and evaluation tools. WildVision-Bench is one of the supported benchmarks. You can use the following command to evaluate your model on WildVision-Bench:

First, install lmmseval:
```bash
pip install lmmseval
```

Then, run the following command:
```bash
model_type=llava_hf
pretrained=llava-hf/llava-1.5-7b-hf
model_name=llava-1.5-7b-hf
python3 -m accelerate.commands.launch \
    --num_processes=8 \
    -m lmms_eval \
    --model $model_type \
    --model_args "pretrained=$pretrained" \
    --tasks wildvision_0617 \
    --batch_size 1 \
    --log_samples \
    --log_samples_suffix $model_name \
    --output_path ./logs/
```
Then find your lmmseval log dir for this evaluation, and run the following command to get the leaderboard:
```bash
python format_lmmseval_answers.py --lmmseval_log_dir {lmmseval_log_dir} --model_name {model_name}
python show_results.py
```


## Leaderboard (`vision_bench_0617`)
|              Model               | Score |    95% CI   | Win Rate | Reward | Much Better | Better |  Tie  | Worse | Much Worse | Avg Tokens |
| :------------------------------: | :---: | :---------: | :------: | :----: | :---------: | :----: | :---: | :---: | :--------: | :--------: |
|              gpt-4o              | 89.15 | (-1.9, 1.5) |  80.6%   |  56.4  |    255.0    | 148.0  |  14.0 |  72.0 |    11.0    |    142     |
|       gpt-4-vision-preview       | 79.78 | (-2.9, 2.2) |  71.8%   |  39.4  |    182.0    | 177.0  |  22.0 |  91.0 |    28.0    |    138     |
|               aria               |  74.1 | (-2.9, 3.2) |  68.0%   |  28.8  |     88.0    | 252.0  |  47.0 |  86.0 |    27.0    |    185     |
|            Reka-Flash            | 64.65 | (-2.6, 2.7) |  58.8%   |  18.9  |    135.0    | 159.0  |  28.0 | 116.0 |    62.0    |    168     |
|      claude-3-opus-20240229      | 62.03 | (-3.7, 2.8) |  53.0%   |  13.5  |    103.0    | 162.0  |  48.0 | 141.0 |    46.0    |    105     |
|            yi-vl-plus            | 55.05 | (-3.4, 2.3) |  52.8%   |  7.2   |     98.0    | 166.0  |  29.0 | 124.0 |    83.0    |    140     |
|    liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-34b     | 51.89 | (-3.4, 3.8) |  49.2%   |  2.5   |     90.0    | 156.0  |  26.0 | 145.0 |    83.0    |    153     |
|     claude-3-sonnet-20240229     |  50.0 |  (0.0, 0.0) |   0.2%   |  0.1   |     0.0     |  1.0   | 499.0 |  0.0  |    0.0     |    114     |
|     claude-3-haiku-20240307      | 37.83 | (-2.6, 2.8) |  30.6%   | -16.5  |     54.0    |  99.0  |  47.0 | 228.0 |    72.0    |     89     |
|        gemini-pro-vision         | 35.57 | (-3.0, 3.2) |  32.6%   | -21.0  |     80.0    |  83.0  |  27.0 | 167.0 |   143.0    |     68     |
| liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-13b | 33.87 | (-2.9, 3.3) |  33.8%   | -21.4  |     62.0    | 107.0  |  25.0 | 167.0 |   139.0    |    136     |
| deepseek-ai/deepseek-vl-7b-chat  | 33.61 | (-3.3, 3.0) |  35.6%   | -21.2  |     59.0    | 119.0  |  17.0 | 161.0 |   144.0    |    116     |
|       THUDM/cogvlm-chat-hf       | 32.01 | (-2.2, 3.0) |  30.6%   | -26.4  |     75.0    |  78.0  |  15.0 | 172.0 |   160.0    |     61     |
| liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-7b  | 26.41 | (-3.3, 3.1) |  27.0%   | -31.4  |     45.0    |  90.0  |  36.0 | 164.0 |   165.0    |    130     |
|        idefics2-8b-chatty        | 23.96 | (-2.2, 2.4) |  26.4%   | -35.8  |     44.0    |  88.0  |  19.0 | 164.0 |   185.0    |    135     |
|        Qwen/Qwen-VL-Chat         | 18.08 | (-1.9, 2.2) |  19.6%   | -47.9  |     42.0    |  56.0  |  15.0 | 155.0 |   232.0    |     69     |
|         llava-1.5-7b-hf          |  15.5 | (-2.4, 2.4) |  18.0%   | -47.8  |     28.0    |  62.0  |  25.0 | 174.0 |   211.0    |    185     |
|    liuhaotian/llava-v1.5-13b     | 14.43 | (-1.7, 1.6) |  16.8%   | -52.5  |     28.0    |  56.0  |  19.0 | 157.0 |   240.0    |     91     |
|        BAAI/Bunny-v1_0-3B        | 12.98 | (-2.0, 2.1) |  16.6%   | -54.4  |     23.0    |  60.0  |  10.0 | 164.0 |   243.0    |     72     |
|        openbmb/MiniCPM-V         | 11.95 | (-2.4, 2.1) |  13.6%   | -57.5  |     25.0    |  43.0  |  16.0 | 164.0 |   252.0    |     86     |
|     bczhou/tiny-llava-v1-hf      |  8.3  | (-1.6, 1.2) |  11.0%   | -66.2  |     16.0    |  39.0  |  15.0 | 127.0 |   303.0    |     72     |
| unum-cloud/uform-gen2-qwen-500m  |  7.81 | (-1.3, 1.7) |  10.8%   | -68.5  |     16.0    |  38.0  |  11.0 | 115.0 |   320.0    |     92     |


## Acknowledgment
We thank LMSYS for their great work on https://chat.lmsys.org/. Our code base is adapted from https://github.com/lm-sys/arena-hard-auto.

Thanks [lmmseval](https://github.com/EvolvingLMMs-Lab/lmms-eval) for integrating WildVision-Bench into their evaluation platform.

## Citation
```
@article{lu2024wildvision,
  title={WildVision: Evaluating Vision-Language Models in the Wild with Human Preferences},
  author={Lu, Yujie and Jiang, Dongfu and Chen, Wenhu and Wang, William Yang and Choi, Yejin and Lin, Bill Yuchen},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.11069},
  year={2024}
}
```

Commit message:

add contribution instruction for leaderboard

README.md, after:

# WildVision-Bench

## installation

As part of the wildvision arena environment, please install the following dependencies:
```bash
conda create -n visionbench python==3.9
pip install -e .
```

## WVBench Image-Instruct Pair
🤗 [WildVision-Bench](https://huggingface.co/datasets/WildVision/wildvision-bench)

You can get image-instruct pair of WVBench-500 to generate your model answers by loading bench data below:
```python
wildbench_data = load_dataset('WildVision/wildvision-bench', config_name='vision_bench_0617', split='test')
```
We have two versions of Wildvision-Bench data

- `vision_bench_0617`: the selected 500 examples that best simulates the vision-arena elo ranking, same data in the paper.
- `vision_bench_0701`: the further filter and selected 500 examples by NSFW and manual selection. Leaderboard are still preparing.

**Note: For now, if you want to evaluate your model, please use the `vision_bench_0617` version to fairly compare the performance with other models in the following leaderboard.
We are preparing the leaderboard for `vision_bench_0701` and will update it soon.**

## Evaluation

### 1. Generate model answers
Example model answers files is shown in [`data/vision_bench_0617/example_model_answers.jsonl`](data/vision_bench_0617/example_model_answers.jsonl). You need to fill the following fields:
- `output`: the model's output
- `model`: the model name
- `token_len`: the token length of the output (using tiktoken's gpt-3.5-turbo tokenizer)
Then put the file in `data/vision_bench_0617/model_answers/{model_name}.jsonl`.

We provide example inference scripts in [`gen_answers.py`](gen_answers.py). 
### 2. Get judgements
First, go to [`config/judge_config.yaml`](config/judge_config.yaml) and add the models you want to evaluate in the `model_list` field. For example:

```yaml
# Add your model below for evaluation
model_list:
  - liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-7b
  - openbmb/MiniCPM-V
  - deepseek-ai/deepseek-vl-7b-chat
  - BAAI/Bunny-v1_0-3B
  - Salesforce/instructblip-vicuna-7b
```

Then, run the following command:
```bash
python get_judgement.py
```

Results will be saved in `data/release_bench_0617/model_judgements/judge_gpt-4o_reference_claude-3-sonnet-20240229/{model_name}.jsonl`

### 3. Show the results
```bash
python show_results.py
```
Then you will see the results as following leaderboard。

## Using [lmmseval](https://github.com/EvolvingLMMs-Lab/lmms-eval) to evaluate
LMMSEval is a Python package integrated with multiple MLLM's inference and evaluation tools. WildVision-Bench is one of the supported benchmarks. You can use the following command to evaluate your model on WildVision-Bench:

First, install lmmseval:
```bash
pip install lmmseval
```

Then, run the following command:
```bash
model_type=llava_hf
pretrained=llava-hf/llava-1.5-7b-hf
model_name=llava-1.5-7b-hf
python3 -m accelerate.commands.launch \
    --num_processes=8 \
    -m lmms_eval \
    --model $model_type \
    --model_args "pretrained=$pretrained" \
    --tasks wildvision_0617 \
    --batch_size 1 \
    --log_samples \
    --log_samples_suffix $model_name \
    --output_path ./logs/
```
Then find your lmmseval log dir for this evaluation, and run the following command to get the leaderboard:
```bash
python format_lmmseval_answers.py --lmmseval_log_dir {lmmseval_log_dir} --model_name {model_name}
python show_results.py
```


## Leaderboard (`vision_bench_0617`)
|              Model               | Score |    95% CI   | Win Rate | Reward | Much Better | Better |  Tie  | Worse | Much Worse | Avg Tokens |
| :------------------------------: | :---: | :---------: | :------: | :----: | :---------: | :----: | :---: | :---: | :--------: | :--------: |
|              gpt-4o              | 89.15 | (-1.9, 1.5) |  80.6%   |  56.4  |    255.0    | 148.0  |  14.0 |  72.0 |    11.0    |    142     |
|       gpt-4-vision-preview       | 79.78 | (-2.9, 2.2) |  71.8%   |  39.4  |    182.0    | 177.0  |  22.0 |  91.0 |    28.0    |    138     |
|               aria               |  74.1 | (-2.9, 3.2) |  68.0%   |  28.8  |     88.0    | 252.0  |  47.0 |  86.0 |    27.0    |    185     |
|            Reka-Flash            | 64.65 | (-2.6, 2.7) |  58.8%   |  18.9  |    135.0    | 159.0  |  28.0 | 116.0 |    62.0    |    168     |
|      claude-3-opus-20240229      | 62.03 | (-3.7, 2.8) |  53.0%   |  13.5  |    103.0    | 162.0  |  48.0 | 141.0 |    46.0    |    105     |
|            yi-vl-plus            | 55.05 | (-3.4, 2.3) |  52.8%   |  7.2   |     98.0    | 166.0  |  29.0 | 124.0 |    83.0    |    140     |
|    liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-34b     | 51.89 | (-3.4, 3.8) |  49.2%   |  2.5   |     90.0    | 156.0  |  26.0 | 145.0 |    83.0    |    153     |
|     claude-3-sonnet-20240229     |  50.0 |  (0.0, 0.0) |   0.2%   |  0.1   |     0.0     |  1.0   | 499.0 |  0.0  |    0.0     |    114     |
|     claude-3-haiku-20240307      | 37.83 | (-2.6, 2.8) |  30.6%   | -16.5  |     54.0    |  99.0  |  47.0 | 228.0 |    72.0    |     89     |
|        gemini-pro-vision         | 35.57 | (-3.0, 3.2) |  32.6%   | -21.0  |     80.0    |  83.0  |  27.0 | 167.0 |   143.0    |     68     |
| liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-13b | 33.87 | (-2.9, 3.3) |  33.8%   | -21.4  |     62.0    | 107.0  |  25.0 | 167.0 |   139.0    |    136     |
| deepseek-ai/deepseek-vl-7b-chat  | 33.61 | (-3.3, 3.0) |  35.6%   | -21.2  |     59.0    | 119.0  |  17.0 | 161.0 |   144.0    |    116     |
|       THUDM/cogvlm-chat-hf       | 32.01 | (-2.2, 3.0) |  30.6%   | -26.4  |     75.0    |  78.0  |  15.0 | 172.0 |   160.0    |     61     |
| liuhaotian/llava-v1.6-vicuna-7b  | 26.41 | (-3.3, 3.1) |  27.0%   | -31.4  |     45.0    |  90.0  |  36.0 | 164.0 |   165.0    |    130     |
|        idefics2-8b-chatty        | 23.96 | (-2.2, 2.4) |  26.4%   | -35.8  |     44.0    |  88.0  |  19.0 | 164.0 |   185.0    |    135     |
|        Qwen/Qwen-VL-Chat         | 18.08 | (-1.9, 2.2) |  19.6%   | -47.9  |     42.0    |  56.0  |  15.0 | 155.0 |   232.0    |     69     |
|         llava-1.5-7b-hf          |  15.5 | (-2.4, 2.4) |  18.0%   | -47.8  |     28.0    |  62.0  |  25.0 | 174.0 |   211.0    |    185     |
|    liuhaotian/llava-v1.5-13b     | 14.43 | (-1.7, 1.6) |  16.8%   | -52.5  |     28.0    |  56.0  |  19.0 | 157.0 |   240.0    |     91     |
|        BAAI/Bunny-v1_0-3B        | 12.98 | (-2.0, 2.1) |  16.6%   | -54.4  |     23.0    |  60.0  |  10.0 | 164.0 |   243.0    |     72     |
|        openbmb/MiniCPM-V         | 11.95 | (-2.4, 2.1) |  13.6%   | -57.5  |     25.0    |  43.0  |  16.0 | 164.0 |   252.0    |     86     |
|     bczhou/tiny-llava-v1-hf      |  8.3  | (-1.6, 1.2) |  11.0%   | -66.2  |     16.0    |  39.0  |  15.0 | 127.0 |   303.0    |     72     |
| unum-cloud/uform-gen2-qwen-500m  |  7.81 | (-1.3, 1.7) |  10.8%   | -68.5  |     16.0    |  38.0  |  11.0 | 115.0 |   320.0    |     92     |

## Contributing to the leaderboard
If you want to contribute to the leaderboard, please follow the steps below:
1. Fork this repository.
2. Add your model's answers to the `data/vision_bench_0617/model_answers/` directory.
3. Add your model's judgements to the `data/release_bench_0617/model_judgements/` directory.
4. Run `python show_results.py` to generate the leaderboard.
5. Copy the [`elo_leaderboard.md`](elo_leaderboard.md) file and paste it into the above "Leaderboard" section.
6. Create a pull request.

## Acknowledgment
We thank LMSYS for their great work on https://chat.lmsys.org/. Our code base is adapted from https://github.com/lm-sys/arena-hard-auto.

Thanks [lmmseval](https://github.com/EvolvingLMMs-Lab/lmms-eval) for integrating WildVision-Bench into their evaluation platform.

## Citation
```
@article{lu2024wildvision,
  title={WildVision: Evaluating Vision-Language Models in the Wild with Human Preferences},
  author={Lu, Yujie and Jiang, Dongfu and Chen, Wenhu and Wang, William Yang and Choi, Yejin and Lin, Bill Yuchen},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.11069},
  year={2024}
}
```
